---
layout: post
title:      "Why I decided to learn about software engineering."
date:       2020-06-24 23:05:12 +0000
permalink:  why_i_decided_to_learn_about_software_engineering
---


     It would only be too easy to answer this question and end this blog post swiftly by saying I've always wanted to learn software engineering and everything connected to it. However, that would simply not be true. Though perhaps it is more accurate to say that I simply wasn't aware of my interest in programming and technology related industried growing up. As I entered adulthood I held many lofty ambitions which compelled me to place my bets on other career paths, like music or science. But in the end, I find myself arriving full circle with the realization of where my true passion has always lied.
		 
		 On the surface, I could say that I decided to learn software engineering because I like videogames. Since I was very young, videogames have been an enourmously influential part of my childhood and delevopment. That connected has not faded even as I begin life in my 30's. While as a child growing up I adored videogames for the escape and entertainment they provided, as a learned adult I developed a passion for the orchestra that is a well-produced game, from the amazing artwork and emotional musical scores, to the intricacies of world-building and level design. Even though my life has worked hard to steer me away from considering a life or career in which I could be a part of making this magic, in an ideal world I would become an integral part in designing and constructing the future masterpieces my peers and successors will admire in the same way I have admired video games in the past.
		 
		 All that being said, I am no artist. While I certainiy would not turn down an opportunity to work in the creative thinking department or as a voice actor, I believe working on the technical side of things would fit my persona just as effectively if not more. In addition, software engineering skills can be utilized in far more industries that simply videogames. It's hard to argue with the versatility and availability of jobs (not to mention the pay is supposed to be impressive) software engineering has to offer. Even moreso, aside from the benefits to a potential career, the things that have been created and could potentially be created through mastery of programming languages goes beyond words. Having the power not only design and create ideas, but also construct and implement my ideas, would truly be a great boon; with the technology industry growing every day, there's no better time like the presence.
		 
		 As I said from the start, I didn't always want to be in the technology industry, or atleast I didn't believe I was. I was far too concerned with fame and glamour to appreciate the potential of working in the computer industry. I still kick myself for not seeing back then what a monumental oppotunity I would have created for myself. However, I don't look at the past 10 years as a failure or a waste, I view them as learning experiences. With the blended knowledge I've collected from working a plethora of jobs and earning multiple degrees, I believe I can use this intel towards developing ideas for future software projects. 
		 
		 To summarize, it took me longer than may have been ideal, but I have realized that my passion lies in the frustrating, time-consuming work of software engineering. I'm hoping to take the knowledge I've acquired over the years, splash into the technology industry, and continue pursuing my lofty ambition to contribute to the world in a big and beneficial way.
